# 3. Writing up idea and brainstorming notes\*

This week, I want students to complete two notes:&#x20;

1. An idea or concept note answering the question, "What is a game?" based on the two assigned Nguyen readings and perhaps some additional research.
2. The second is a brainstorming note.&#x20;

### 1. Idea notes

The two readings by C.T. Nguyen provide students with the basic building blocks for answering the question, "What is a game?".&#x20;

**A. Read** through the two articles, highlighting and annotating with hypothes.is so that you will be able to reconstruct their key arguments and idea.

* with your annotations make sure you have made clear _**your**_** thoughts** about Nguyen's ideas/words and provide some mental context so that you can make sense of the text that gets downloaded into Obsidian
* when you are reading through Nguyen's texts, identify **terminology** that seems key, but is new to you. To make these easy to find by you later, tag new terminology with a tag like "#NewTerminology" or "NeedToDefine". While hypothes.is is happy to use tags that are multiple words, Obsidian is not and won't recognize them (i.e. will use on the first word as a tag)

**B. Import** your hypothesis annotations into two new notes.&#x20;

* Name the new notes "Annotations - Nguyen - 2016" for the article in _Philosophy Compass_ and the other "Annotations - Nguyen - 2020" for the chapter in _Games: Agency as Art_.&#x20;
* Anytime you import from Hypothes.is, you should name the files consistently, defining what kind of note it is (annotations), referring to the author (in this case, Nguyen) and date (2016/2020) of the publication.&#x20;

**C. Create** a new permanent note, with a title something like, "What is a Game" or "Game: a definition" or something that makes sense to you and insert the permanent note template into the note

**D. Populate** your note with information.&#x20;

1. Add tags at the end of this process
2. Either by embedding notes from your annotations of Nguyen's texts, or by copy-and-pasting them, provide key supporting material for your definition of what a game is. Be selective of any quotations to make sure that they are necessary. The key is, however, if you have a quotation, you need to explain it in your own words.&#x20;
3. In historical writing, we argue based on fundamental evidence. We either base our arguments on what scholars have written (secondary sources) or we use evidence of the past (primary sources). For this course, our primary sources will tend to be games or written accounts/ descriptions of games. You can define what a game is either by using Nguyen words or evidence of games you have played or know about.&#x20;
4.

I recommend the online [Encyclopedia of Ludic Terms](https://eolt.org/) (English "ludic"   is an adjective derived from the Latin, _ludus –_ game, play, sport, pastime). It is a useful and developing resource for studying games.&#x20;

### 2. Brainstorming note
