# 3.1 Writing up a permanent note\*

### Requirements:

* You need to have read through and annotated the entirety of chapter 1 of _The Devil's Historians_ carefully (and read other people's annotations)
* You need to have completed [exercise no. ](2.2-introduction-to-perusall.md)2.2 (annotating Kinsey's article on Perusall)
* You will need to have adequate information for creating a permanent note, so you may need to further annotate Kaufman and Sturtevant's _The Devil's Historians_ beyond your initial minimim annotations.

### What you need to do:

* you will create a literature and permanent note listing, explaining and giving examples of the major myths of the Middle Ages

### Steps:

Create a new literature note from the [template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12hIYg2UJdfCBa9u8\_UlXf1cHlVRV2gmnn0HkWsnBuvU/edit?usp=sharing) (following the instructions of [exercise no. 2](2.2-introduction-to-perusall.md)) taking notes on Sturtevant and Kaufman's _The Devil's Historians._ This is essentially repeats the last exercise.&#x20;

Create a new file from the [Permanent Note Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/173ChNMOCsM93-rLwuE4mda4fAdfW9854cgV2xS8igDM/edit?usp=sharing), by clicking on the link, making a copy and adding a new title and file name. The note should have a name something like, "YOUR NAME - Myths of the Middle Ages 1.0" Adding a version number to permanent notes is useful to keeping track of versions.&#x20;

A permanent note wants you to do three things,&#x20;

* include tags
* provide a few paragraph about the key idea
* provide links

**Tags** help you locate connections between notes and ideas, the paragraph summarizes for your future self what is the relevence of the idea and then links helps you put stuff together - links to readings online, media, or in our case, a list of links to notes.&#x20;

Tags should not describe the general topic (becuase that is already established in the title of your note), but sub-concepts that you're thinking that the note might address/ did address if you add then later.&#x20;

Tags you might use:

* **Meta** tags which categorize the note:  #notes/practice, #readings #week3
* **Conceptual** tags, which hint at the links to ideas you want to think about: #barbarian, #medievalism, #religious-conflict, #Is-History-progressive?

**Idea:** this section should be a summary of what the importance of the note's topic is. Your goal for this section, is to define succinctly:

1. What is the "myth of the Middle Ages"?
2. Why historians care about these myths?

This section shouldn't list the myths, but rather should try to define what is the idea unifying the various myths (hint: this will be clearly stated in the introduction and conclusion of the chapter), if you are seeking to transmit what Kaufman and Sturtevant describe. Please feel free to add your thoughts in reaction to theirs as well. Also, do not simply quote what Kaufman and Sturtevant have said, but tell the reader (i.e. your future self) in your own words what they said/they mean/what you took away from them.&#x20;

You will note that on page 12, 15, 18, 22, 25, 27 there are headers designating different myths the authors are addressing. You should define all six myths in turn.&#x20;

**Links:** this section links to key resources, literature notes, media etc.&#x20;

In your note, try to find a link to six different forms of media that you feel might represent myths of the Middle Ages (one for each myth). It can be a link to a movie trailer, a book, an advertisement...

### **Final step**

As a final step, link your Myths of the Middle Ages note in your Student Work folder on Teams.
